Documentation progress (#1899)
dotnet/Silk.NET: website/docs/opengl/c1/3-hello-texture.md

---
{
    "TableOfContents": {
        "Name": "1.3 - Hello Texture",
        "Url": "3-hello-Texture.html",
        "Metadata": {
            "AuthorGitHub": "lumi2021",
            "DateTimeWritten": "11/01/2024 16:00",
            "PreviewImage": ""
        }
    }
}
---

# 1.3 - Hello Texture
<?# Info "You can view the source code for this tutorial [here](../sources/1.3-final-result.html). This tutorial builds on the previous tutorial. If you haven't read it, you can do so [here](1-hello-window.html)." /?>

After a good time of work, we can finally see what we want on the screen, but we need a lot to create a good program!

Another very important thing in graphics programming is the ability to draw images. In this tutorial, you'll learn:

* What is a texture.
* How to send more data to shaders.
* How to use texture coordinates.
* How to import images as textures.
* How shaders handle images.
* How to use texture parameters.
* How to allow mipmaps.

like before, this tutorial will feature a lot of new content and info, so we'll take it slow and explain.

## What is a texture

> Technically, textures are multidimensional objects that store color data.

Reviewer: This doesnt seem like it was resolved

Mainly, textures store 2D data of the pixels of an image like a 2D array (this is just for comparison. Texture objects are a lot more

> complex than just 2D arrays!).

Author: Tbh i don't like so much to use info boxes, i think they use a lot of unnecessary space and are a little bad for reading. But it's for what they are made, so i will rewrite

> This data can be used to be sanded to a shader, in an easy way for it can read.

Author: i don't, it was an accident. sry

<?# Info "there's 1D or 3D texture objects, but we will focus on 2D" /?>

But don't think texturing objects is as easy as a simple drag-and-drop! Textures need some information to be drawn.
The most important information that we need to send to the texture to see it on the screen is the texture coordinates.
The texture coordinates are the position of the texture in the specific vertex and at first, we will learn how to create
and read it using the shader.

## Sending more data to shaders
Having it as our next objective, let's learn how to receive more data to shaders, in the way to use it as our texture coordinates.

texture coordinates are a type of data that can be easily manipulated just by the vertex, so this is the way that we use to send the
coordinates.

> 

Author: Sorry, i don't understand what you want to mean

> 

Reviewer: The phrase "texture coordinates are a type of data that can be easily manipulated just by the vertex" implies the other coordinates cant be manipulated on a per-vertex basis, which is not the case.

> 

Author: oh, ok, i will see how i can fix it

{
//       aPosition     | aTexCoords
     0.5f,  0.5f, 0.0f,  1.0f, 1.0f,
     0.5f, -0.5f, 0.0f,  1.0f, 0.0f,
    -0.5f, -0.5f, 0.0f,  0.0f, 0.0f,
    -0.5f,  0.5f, 0.0f,  0.0f, 1.0f
};
```

In this way, we can use the same Float Array `vertices` to store both vertex and texture coordinates, easily and fast.

If we try to run our program now...

![A really messed up quad!](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/messed-up-quad.png)

"Oh no! We messed up with everything!" is what you should be thinking. And in reality, yes, we do. But it's simple, we just
forgot to update the vertex position attribute pointer.

In our `VertexAttribPointer`, we declared a size of 3 and a stride of 3 for the `aPosition` attribute.
Because of this, our Buffer is being read like this:

![Buffer reading wrong data](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/wrong-pointers.png)

To fix this little issue, we just need to back to our `VertexAttribPointer()`, below our shader compiling section, and
change it to:
```c#
//                                        3 position + 2 texture coordinates! \/
_gl.VertexAttribPointer(positionLoc, 3, VertexAttribPointerType.Float, false, 5 * sizeof(float), (void*)0);

> ```

Author: good idea, i will provide it

### `TextureMinFilter` & `TextureMagFilter`:
Texture `min` and `mag` filters are the filters used when the texture's final size is, respectively, less or greater than the original size.
For now, we will see just the main two options and see some others in the next section (Mipmaps).

#### `Texture(Min/Mag)Filter.Linear`:
The (bi)linear filter is the best for low-quality images. When the pixels are appearing in the render, this filter will get the color of the nearest
pixels of the pixel in the center of the texture coordinates and will return a linear interpolation of them.

This is an example from [learn OpenGl](https://learnopengl.com/Getting-started/Textures). See how the neighbor colors are interpolated to return a different
color:

![linear filter](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/texParameters/filter_linear.png)

#### `Texture(Min/Mag)Filter.Nearest`:
The nearest filter is made to return exactly what you're sending. It will return the exact color that matches the sent texture coordinate.

![Nearest filter](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/texParameters/filter_nearest.png)

> ## Mipmaps
> The last point of this tutorial. Mipmaps are an essential resource for making good renders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Mipmaps
Now for the last part of this tutorial. Mipmaps are an essential resource for making good renders.
```

But first, what are Mipmaps?

> Mipmaps are a map of tiny versions of the texture. Following is an example from [imaginationthech blog](https://blog.imaginationtech.com/why-you-really-should-be-using-mipmapping-in-your-graphics-applications/):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mipmaps are a map of tiny versions of the texture. The following is an example from [imaginationthech blog](https://blog.imaginationtech.com/why-you-really-should-be-using-mipmapping-in-your-graphics-applications/):
```

> ![A example of Mipmap texture](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/example_mipmap.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![An example of a Mipmap texture](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/example_mipmap.png)
```

> But for what this is used?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But what is this used for?
```

> At first look, mipmaps may seem very useless. But in reality, not! Mipmaps are used when the texture is being rendered in a very low size, which can
> cause some weird color results, even with the use of the linear filter. This weird color combination can cause a visual effect called the "moiré effect", which can
> be tiring for the eyes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At first look, mipmaps may seem very useless. But in reality, they are extremely important! Mipmaps are used when the texture is being rendered at a very low size, which can
cause some weird visual artifacts, even with the use of the linear filter. The most potent visual effect is something called the "moiré effect", which can
be tiring for the eyes, and generally look quite ugly.
```

> The mipmap purpose is to provide an alternative to the fragment shader to use a texture closer to the appropriate size to be drawn, almost completely
> eliminating the terrible moiré effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of a mipmap is to provide an alternative texture to the fragment shader, a one with a more appropriate size for the geometry being drawn, almost completely
eliminating the moiré effect.
```

> An example from [Wikipeedia](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Mipmap_Aliasing_Comparison.png). It's possible to notice weird patterns
> generated far away in the render without mipmaps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example from [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Mipmap_Aliasing_Comparison.png). It's possible to notice weird patterns
generated far away in the render without mipmaps:
```

![Mipmap usage example](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/mipmap_comparation.png)

> But if you think that generating mipmaps in one image editor for all your textures is really hard work, Don't worry! OpenGL provides a special method to
> make this hard work for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But if you think that generating mipmaps by hand for all your textures is really hard work, don't worry! OpenGL provides a special method to
do this for you.
```

Just after setting the texture parameters, try to add this line to your code:
```c#
_gl.GenerateMipmap(TextureTarget.Texture2D);
```

> But wait, this will not work just with it.
> 
> First, we need to learn some special parameter values that will allow the use of the Mipmap:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But this is not everything, we also need to set some parameters to tell the sampler to use the mipmaps:
```

### `GL_NEAREST_MIPMAP_NEAREST`, `GL_LINEAR_MIPMAP_NEAREST`, `GL_NEAREST_MIPMAP_LINEAR` & `GL_LINEAR_MIPMAP_LINEAR`:

> these parameters should be used as the Texture Min filter and only with textures that have a mipmap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These parameters should be used as the Texture Min filter and only with textures that have a mipmap.
```

#### `TextureMinFilter.GL_NEAREST_MIPMAP_NEAREST`:
Will get the mip with the closest size of the final image and will return the color of the pixel that matches exactly with the texture coordinates.

#### `TextureMinFilter.GL_LINEAR_MIPMAP_NEAREST`:
Will get the color of the pixels that match exactly with the texture coordinates of each mipmap and interpolates them.

#### `TextureMinFilter.GL_NEAREST_MIPMAP_LINEAR`:
Will get the mip with the closest size of the final image and will return the interpolated color
of the pixels surrounding the pixel in the texture coordinate.

#### `TextureMinFilter.GL_LINEAR_MIPMAP_LINEAR`:
Will get the interpolated color of the pixels surrounding the pixel that matches exactly with the texture coordinates of each mipmap and interpolates them.

> Knowing it, you can change the parameters for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Knowing this, you can change the parameters for:
```

```c#
_gl.TextureParameter(_texture, TextureParameterName.TextureWrapS, (int)TextureWrapMode.Repeat);
_gl.TextureParameter(_texture, TextureParameterName.TextureWrapT, (int)TextureWrapMode.Repeat);
_gl.TextureParameter(_texture, TextureParameterName.TextureMinFilter, (int)TextureMinFilter.NearestMipmapNearest); // <- change here!
_gl.TextureParameter(_texture, TextureParameterName.TextureMagFilter, (int)TextureMagFilter.Nearest);
```

> 
> And now the mip

Reviewer: ```suggestion

And now the mipmaps will be used.
```

## Wrapping up

> You've just completed your first Silk.NET tutorial! Here are some next steps you can take:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You've just completed another Silk.NET tutorial! Here are some next steps you can take:
```

---
{
    "TableOfContents": {
        "Name": "1.3 - Hello Texture",
        "Url": "3-hello-Texture.html",
        "Metadata": {
            "AuthorGitHub": "lumi2021",
            "DateTimeWritten": "11/01/2024 16:00",
            "PreviewImage": ""
        }
    }
}
---

# 1.3 - Hello Texture
<?# Info "You can view the source code for this tutorial [here](../sources/1.3-final-result.html). This tutorial builds on the previous tutorial. If you haven't read it, you can do so [here](1-hello-window.html)." /?>

> After a good time of work, we can finally see what we want on the screen, but we need a lot to create a good program!

Author: I think some informally is good for having more captivating learning, but if you insist

> Another very important thing in graphics programming is the ability to draw images. In this tutorial, you'll learn:

Reviewer 2: colored* (I'm sorry haha)

* What is a texture.
* How to send more data to shaders.
* How to use texture coordinates.
* How to import images as textures.
* How shaders handle images.
* How to use texture parameters.
* How to allow mipmaps.

Like before, this tutorial will feature a lot of new content and info, so we'll take it slow and explain.

## What is a texture
Technically, textures are multidimensional objects that store color data.

> Mainly, textures store 2D data of the pixels of an image like a 2D array (this is just for comparison. Texture objects are a lot more
> complex than just 2D arrays!).
> This data can be used to be sanded to a shader, in an easy way for it can read.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The most common type of texture is the 2D texture, which stores a 2D grid of pixels of an image (this is just for comparison. Texture objects are a lot more complex than just 2D arrays!).
This data is stored in GPU memory, and can be read a shader.
```

> <?# Info "There's 1D or 3D texture objects, but we will focus on 2D" /?>

Author: 😓

this data and read it from a shader.

## Sending more data to shaders
With our new objective, let's learn how to send more data to shaders, and use it as texture coordinates.

texture coordinates are a type of data that can be (and should be) manipulated by the vertex shader before be used by the fragment shader,
so this is the way that we use to send the coordinates.

Let's go back to our `OnLoad` function and update our `vertices` array to the following:
```c#
// The quad vertices data. Now with Texture coordinates!
float[] vertices =
{
//       aPosition     | aTexCoords
     0.5f,  0.5f, 0.0f,  1.0f, 1.0f,
     0.5f, -0.5f, 0.0f,  1.0f, 0.0f,
    -0.5f, -0.5f, 0.0f,  0.0f, 0.0f,
    -0.5f,  0.5f, 0.0f,  0.0f, 1.0f
};
```

With how we have structured the data, both the vertex and texture coordinates can be stored in a single array.

If we try to run our program now...

![A really messed up quad!](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/messed-up-quad.png)

"Oh no! We messed up with everything!" is what you should be thinking. And in reality, yes, we did. But it's simple to resolve, we just
forgot to update our vertex layout definition.

> In our `VertexAttribPointer` calls, we declared a size of 3 and a stride of 3 for the `aPosition` attribute.

Author: I should agree with the UK math teachers, it allows any type and isn't like i can easily explain something that can be ANY measure unity. I will see what i can do with it

> In our `VertexAttribPointer` calls, we declared a size of 3 and a stride of 3 for the `aPosition` attribute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In our `VertexAttribPointer` calls, we declared an `aPosition` attribute with a size of 3 floats and a stride of 12 bytes (`3 * sizeof(float)` equals 12).
```

> In our `VertexAttribPointer` calls, we declared a size of 3 and a stride of 3 for the `aPosition` attribute.

Author: oh, nice, thx Thomas it's perfect

Because of this, our buffer is being read like this:

> ![Buffer reading wrong data](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/wrong-pointers.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Buffer reading wrong data](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/wrong-pointers.png)

As you can see, the vertex buffer is being read as if the first vertex was composed of the first three floats in the buffer, then the second vertex the next three floats, the third vertex the next three, and so on and so forth. As we can see however, this is now wrong! Since each vertex has two UV floats after its three position floats, this means that the first vertex's U and V floats are being read as the second vertex X and Y position floats!
```

I like this image a lot, well done!

To fix this, we just need to go back to our `VertexAttribPointer()`, which is below our shader compiling section, and
change it to:
```c#
//                                        3 position + 2 texture coordinates! \/

> _gl.VertexAttribPointer(positionLoc, 3, VertexAttribPointerType.Float, false, 5 * sizeof(float), (void*)0);

Author: the "magic number" isn't so magic, it's from tutorial 1.2. This line refers just to the edition on the 5° parameter (stride) and I think it's not my fault if the reader doesn't understand

```

> This will make the buffer be read like that (including the texture coordinate pointer):
> ![Buffer reading right data](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/right-pointers.png)
> 
> 
> And if we run the program now, we can see our quad again!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will make the buffer be read like this (including the texture coordinate pointer, which we'll add into our code later):
![Buffer reading right data](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/right-pointers.png)

Now the positions of each vertex are being read correctly! Each position is still three floats, but by skipping the two floats after each position, we skip over the U and V floats in between each XYZ floats, thus reading them correctly.

If we run the program now, we can see our quad again!
```

(By the way, when I write these suggestions adding additional paragraphs, these are just suggestions. If you'd like to word it differently you can discard what I wrote)

Author: anything you suggest will probably be better than anything that i can wrote so... lol

## Using texture coordinates
Now, we just need to prepare the shader to receive the texture coordinate values. For that, we need to modify both our shaders.

Vertex Shader:
```
#version 330 core

layout (location = 0) in vec3 aPosition;
layout (location = 1) in vec2 aTextureCoord;    // < Add this

> //This line stores the data that we want to be received by the fragment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// This line stores the data that we want to be received by the fragment
```

For consistency 😉

out vec2 frag_texCoords;                        // < This

void main()
{
    gl_Position = vec4(aPosition, 1.0);
    frag_texCoords = aTextureCoord;             // < And this too
    // Remember to assigin the data!
}";
```

> Fragment Shader:

Reviewer 2: I think [the previous tutorial explains then quite well](https://github.com/dotnet/Silk.NET/blob/09788ab8eb2268c3c0241a954b15a608e18ce386/website/docs/opengl/c1/2-hello-quad.md#shaders)

> Fragment Shader:

Author: i will read it and if i see it's necessary, i explain it better. But anyway it's good to explain again, shaders are a really basic and complex thing of graphics programing at the same time

```
#version 330 core

// frag_texCoords comes from vertex shader!
in vec2 frag_texCoords; // < Add this

out vec4 out_color;

void main()
{
    // This will allow us to see the texture coordinates in action!

>     out_color = vec4(frag_texCoords.x, frag_texCoords.y, 0, 1.0);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    out_color = vec4(frag_texCoords.x, frag_texCoords.y, 0.0, 1.0);
```

}
```

Now we just need to assign the correct layout for `aTextureCoord`. You should add these lines below our first `VertexAttribPointer` call:

```c#
const uint texCoordLoc = 1;
_gl.EnableVertexAttribArray(texCoordLoc);

> _gl.VertexAttribPointer(texCoordLoc, 2, VertexAttribPointerType.Float, false, 5 * sizeof(float), (void*)(3 * sizeof(float)));

Reviewer 2: There's a new text explaining the pointer, and I've added a suggestion explaining the rest

```

Pay attention to the last parameter, the pointer! It represents the size of bytes that should be jumped at the start of
each stride. It means GL will add 3 indexes after stride and pick the consecutive 2 values.

> if you do everything right, you will see this result!

Author: I feel a little bit backwards with using a type as an example because the reader can think it will always be a float or something like, but i liked the rewrite. I will see what i can do about it

![Quad with UVs](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/quad-with-uvs.png)

> But we aren't there just yet. We can't see any texture in our quad!
> What you are seeing is the texture coordinates we passed displayed as a color!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This gives us a nice visualisation of the texture coordinates being passed to the fragment shader. But of course, that's not what we set out to do: we set out to draw a textured quad.
```

Reviewer 2: This conversation is still open ping @Perksey 

Looking at the context around these lines, I'd consider leaving them as they are.

Reviewer 3: Edited my suggestion to flow nicer with the lines that follow.

> What does this mean? The colors that you see are the texture coordinate values of that pixel. As a way to demonstrate it, we're converting
> the numeric values to color values to see what we are doing. In the shader, the values are being read like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Red and Green colors you see are the X and Y (respectively) texture coordinate values of that pixel. In the shader, the values are being read like this:
```

Author: I preferred not to use "red" and "green" because there are not just these colors, the fragment shader interpolates the colors and the reader maybe not understand orange as red+green

Reviewer 2: I added a larger suggestion updating this text and explaining the image

![UV values](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/quad-with-uvs-and-numbers.png)

> The neat part is that the fragment shader already interpolates the coordinates! So we don't need to do that ourselves, and can just send a value per

Reviewer 3: As per previous comments, this is quite nuanced and is deserving of a detailed explanation.

Reviewer 2: I added a possible explanation on another suggestion below

> What does this mean? The colors that you see are the texture coordinate values of that pixel. As a way to demonstrate it, we're converting
> the numeric values to color values to see what we are doing. In the shader, the values are being read like this:
> 
> ![UV values](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/quad-with-uvs-and-numbers.png)
> 
> The neat part is that the fragment shader already interpolates the coordinates! So we don't need to do that ourselves, and can just send a value per
> vertex. It saves a lot of work on our end!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The red and green colors you see are the X and Y (respectively) texture coordinate values of that pixel. In the shader, the values are being read like this:

![UV values](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/quad-with-uvs-and-numbers.png)

As you can see, the higher the U coordinate, the redder the pixel, and the higher the V coordinate, the greener the pixel. Even though we only specified UV values for each vertex, all pixels in the quad have UV values! That's because the fragment shader interpolates the coordinates for us, saving us a lot of work on our end.

If we follow the diagonal from (0, 0) to (1, 1), we get the red and green colors growing together. The result of adding together red and green in the RGB color space is yellow!
```

## Importing images as textures
Now for the fun part: rendering an image!

To start this section, first download
[silk.png](https://github.com/dotnet/Silk.NET/blob/477154b99564aac9cf82426754857103fb88d2ea/examples/CSharp/OpenGL%20Tutorials/Tutorial%201.3%20-%20Textures/silk.png).
We will use this image in this tutorial!

> In most cases with OpenGL, textures are uploaded as a sequence of bytes, this is usually done with a layout of 4 bytes per pixel (Red, Green, Blue, and Alpha).
> The hard part is: we can't just upload the bytes of a .png or .jpg file! These formats have a lot of unnecessary data, like headers and most importantly
> compression, which the GPU generally cannot understand.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In most cases with OpenGL, textures are uploaded as a sequence of bytes, this is usually done with a layout of 4 bytes per pixel (Red, Green, Blue, and Alpha). The hard part is: we can't just upload the bytes of a `.png` or `.jpg` file! These formats are compressed, which the GPU generally cannot understand, as well as having a lot of unnecessary data, like headers, author, location, etc.
```

To load an image file as a byte array, we will first need a external library. In our case, we will use StbImageSharp.

> First of all, install the library using NuGet. To do so, run the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First of all, install the library using NuGet. To do so, you can use your IDE's NuGet package manager, or you can run the following command inside your project folder:
```

I can already hear the screams of people who just opened cmd and run this command wherever 😂

```
dotnet add package StbImageSharp
```

After installing, add the following reference on the top of your code file:
```c#
using StbImageSharp;

> ```

Reviewer 3: I am concerned with this. It is our expectation that our web tutorials match our tutorials checked into the repo exactly, and the repo tutorials use ImageSharp.

Author: The repo tutorials use StbImageSharp, all my code and base for this tutorial has just copied from the tutorial repo

Reviewer 3: Yep, looks like we're inconsistent here for these two tutorials only. Not your problem, I'll retroactively moan at @skyebird haha.

Reviewer 4: I used StbImageSharp as I am unfamilliar with ImageSharp, and it was not picked up in my PRs so I assumed it was fine. No worries if it needs to be changed, I know it is inconsistent with previous (and future) tutorials.

Reviewer 3: No worries, it was on us for not picking it up.

At the top of your class, declare a `uint` to store the ID of the OpenGL texture object:
```c#
private static uint _texture;
```

Returning to your `OnLoad` method, add this line at the end of the method to create, and bind the texture.

> That `ActiveTexture` call is telling OpenGL that we are wanting to use the first texture slot.

Reviewer 3: You haven't explained what a texture slot (texture unit) actually is.

Reviewer 2: I prefer if we called them texture units and not slots, as that's how they're referred to by the official Khronos docs

Reviewer 2: There is now an info tag with this explanation

```c#
_texture = _gl.GenTexture();
_gl.ActiveTexture(TextureUnit.Texture0);
_gl.BindTexture(TextureTarget.Texture2D, _texture);
```

After that, we need to load the image. You can do it with the following line:
```c#
// ImageResult.FromMemory reads the bytes of the .png file and returns all its information!
ImageResult result = ImageResult.FromMemory(File.ReadAllBytes("silk.png"), ColorComponents.RedGreenBlueAlpha);
```

> Now, with the image in memory, we need to upload the data to the GPU texture. To dot hat, we need a pointer for our bytes, the width, and the height of
> the texture. None of it is hardcoded, you get all this information inside `ImageResult`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now, with the image in memory, we need to upload the data to the GPU texture. To do that, we need a pointer for our bytes, the width, and the height of
the texture. None of it is hardcoded, you get all this information inside `ImageResult`.
```

```c#
// Define a pointer to the image data
fixed (byte* ptr = result.Data)
    // Here we use "result.Width" and "result.Height" to tell OpenGL about how big our texture is.
    _gl.TexImage2D(TextureTarget.Texture2D, 0, InternalFormat.Rgba, (uint)result.Width,
        (uint)result.Height, 0, PixelFormat.Rgba, PixelType.UnsignedByte, ptr);
```

> You don't need to understand what all these values mean! The OpenGL documentation explains it all in depth. Right now

Reviewer 3: I disagree, you can't expect our users to blindly copy and paste code without understanding it at a surface level.

Author: Honestly I always just copy and paste this method to feed textures. This is very complex and full of weird parameters, also the size of the line makes this more complex to explain. I will try to provide some explanation anyway

Reviewer 2: I agree with Perks, telling readers to just copy and paste code and not worry about understanding it can give a bad impression.

I've written an explanation to replace this paragraph in a suggestion below

> You don't need to understand what all these values mean! The OpenGL documentation explains it all in depth. Right now
> let's just continue with the basics!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Remember when we talked about the different types of textures (1D, 2D, 3D, etc)? Well, how does OpenGL know what type of texture we want when we call `GenTexture()`? The answer is, _it does not!_ So the first thing this call does is tell OpenGL that our texture is a 2D texture (alternatively, if we'd have used TexImage1D or TexImage3D, we'd have gotten a 1D or 3D texture respectively).

Then we specify the format of our texture's pixels. Pixels can be represented in a variety of formats; we'll use RGB, but pixels can also be R (just red), RG (red and green), or even floating point types! After that we specify the width and height of the 2D texture, and lastly we specify data to upload to the texture.

`TexImage2D` allows us to not only set the texture's type, but also optionally upload its image data. `PixelFormat.Rgba` and `PixelType.UnsignedByte` indicate, respectively, that we're uploading raw pixel data organized in RGBA format, with each pixel channel (R, G, B, and A) being an unsigned byte. If we wanted to create the texture without setting any data, we would replace `ptr` with a null pointer, `(void*)0`.
```

Now, with the texture data sent off to the GPU, we need to configure the texture parameters. This is one of the most important steps. It is with these
parameters that the shader knows how to sample colors from the texture using our provided texture coordinates.

> For now, you don't need to understand what these do. We will elaborate on it in the future. Just add these lines after you upload the texture data.

Reviewer 3: Again I disagree.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These will be explained in depth in [the following section on texture parameters](/#texture-parameters). Briefly, these affect how pixel data is read from the texture by the shader's `texture` function.
```

Note: I'm not sure if the link to /#texture-parameters will work like this

Author: i really want to use links like these here but idk how this markdown - to - html works so yeah, i think this is  good question to see in the future

Reviewer 3: /# would send you to dotnet.github.io which would redirect you to dot.net. Remove the leading slash and it should be fine.

Author: o noticed and fixed it, its fine now

```c#
_gl.TextureParameter(_texture, TextureParameterName.TextureWrapS, (int) TextureWrapMode.Repeat);
_gl.TextureParameter(_texture, TextureParameterName.TextureWrapT, (int) TextureWrapMode.Repeat);
_gl.TextureParameter(_texture, TextureParameterName.TextureMinFilter, (int) TextureMinFilter.Linear);

> _gl.TextureParameter(_texture, TextureParameterName.TextureMagFilter, (int) TextureMagFilter.Linear);

Reviewer 2: Consider using `TexParameter` instead of `TextureParameter`, since I don't think we're not using named functions anywhere else (correct me if I'm wrong)

Author: `TextureParameter` isn't, anyway, easier to use and read?

Reviewer 2: Yes, but `glTextureParameter` is only available on OpenGL 4.5, whereas these tutorials seem to be targeting OpenGL 3.3

Reviewer 4: Yeahm the tutorials (the ones I've written anyway) have all targeted GL 3.3.

Author: tbh i don't know how to use `TexParameter`, i usually use `TextureParameter` and the source uses `TextureParameter` also, someone can help me with it?

Reviewer 4: Whoops, seems like that was a mistake on my part. Useage of `TexParameter` is the same as `TextureParameter`, it just acts on the currently bound texture, so you don't pass it the texture handle.

Author: in the reality i need to make some conversions and use different enuns but it's fine

```

> And now, we just need to unbind the texture.

Reviewer 3: What will be the consequences if we don't? How do we teach our users when to bind and unbind something?

Author: As i know, there's any consequence of not unbind textures. There's something that i should put here?

Reviewer 2: I think it's mostly about resetting states, cleaning up. You don't need to unbind things after using them, it's just good practice to do so

Reviewer 3: So tell our readers that, they don't know that. Generally "do this because do it" isn't a good way of teaching our users to make their own decisions and spot when they need to do something and when they don't, and what happens if they don't.

Author: honestly texture unbinding is something so useless that i can't even think of a good explanation for that...

Reviewer 2: ((Shhh, don't tell anybody but I don't unbind resources after using them 😉))

```c#
_gl.BindTexture(TextureTarget.Texture2D, 0);
```

## Handling texture data in shader
Now, let's finally show it on the screen!

In your fragment shader, add this `uniform` declaration:
```
uniform sampler2D uTexture;
```

And change this line:
```
void main()
{
//  -out_color = vec4(frag_texCoords.x, frag_texCoords.y, 0, 1.0);
    out_color = texture(uTexture, frag_texCoords);
}
```

> In GLSL, you usually dont work with textures directly. The most common way to access a texture is using a `sampler`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In GLSL, you usually don't work with textures directly. The most common way to access a texture is using a `sampler`.
```

In our case, we are using `sampler2D` for our 2D texture.
To read the texture data, the `texture` method is used. It samples the color of the texture at the
specified texture coordinates and uses the previously set parameters to interpolate that color.

But pay attention! If you have good eyes, you noticed our texture coordinates are between the ranges of `0.0` to `1.0` This is because the `texture` method works

> with normalized values! If you dont understand, think about a 250x500 pixels image. If you want to get the pixel at the position

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with normalized values! To better understand this, think about a 250x500 pixels image. If you want to get the pixel at the position
```

> (250, 250), we need to send (1, 0.5) as the texture coordinate. You can derive the pixel coordinate from the normalized coordinate by multiplying by the axis' size.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(250, 250), we need to send (250 / width, 250 / height), or (1, 0.5), as the texture coordinate. This way the size of the texture doesn't matter to the shader!
```

<?# Info "You can use the equation ` 1/size * pixel_position ` to get the normalized coordinate for a particlar axis!" /?>

Now, if you run the program, you will see just a black quad. It's because we need to bind the texture before the draw call!
If you don't do it, the last applied texture will be used for this mesh, in our case, since we have no texture bound, no texture is used.

To solve it, go to your `OnRender` method and, below the `_gl.UseProgram()` call, first activate the texture slot that you will use:
```c#
_gl.ActiveTexture(TextureUnit.Texture0);
```
And after, bind the texture!
```c#
_gl.BindTexture(TextureTarget.Texture2D, _texture);

> ```

Reviewer 2: You're never explaining how to set the sampler2D uniform to an actual value!

Author: oh, right! Sry, i will explain it better when i rewrite the explain of how feeding and binding textures work!

And now when you run it (drumroll...), you can see the image being drawn inside the quad!

![Quad with texture](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/quad-with-texture.png)

> ## Texture parameters

Reviewer 3: Ah, I didn't realise you had this section. Maybe where I've put my previous comments you can put an abridged explanation and say that there's more detail at the bottom of the file.

Either that, or just inline this section with where these parameters are actually set/used.

Reviewer 2: I wrote a suggestion to reword the line you in your previous comment.

I don't think inlining this section makes sense, it's a large section with multiple images and it would distract the reader away from the flow of the tutorial

Author: Same thing in mind, also the tutorial doesn't show anything about it. These are just extra content about the textures that i think is cool to have as informative content

And now, some extra content to go with this tutorial!

If you get curious about how the texture parameters work, let's learn it now!

First, let's learn the structure of the command:
```c#

> _gl.TextureParameter( [Texture ID] , [Parameter to change] , [Value to change] );

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_gl.TextureParameter( [Texture ID] , [Parameter to change] , [Parameter's new value] );
```

Slightly less ambiguous

```

The texture ID you already know. So let's learn what each parameter means!

### `TextureWrapS` & `TextureWrapT`:

> `TextureWrap` is the parameter that allows you to say what the `texture` method (in the fragment shader) should do with values less than 0 and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`TextureWrap` is the parameter that allows you to say what the `texture` method (in the fragment shader) should do with values lesser than 0 and
```

greater than 1. The `S` and `T` refer to X and Y respectively.

Let's see the most common values for these parameters:

#### `TextureWrapMode.Repeat`:

> Just repeats the image without any change, like the value never got less than 0 or greater than 1.  

Reviewer 2: > like the value never got less than 0 or greater than 1

This doesn't mean anything (to me, at least)

```suggestion
Just repeats the image without any change, turning any coordinates outside the [0, 1) range by taking the fractional part of said number.
```

Author: i should use `[0, 1]` or `(0, 1)` ? Don't answer it it doesn't matter

Reviewer 2: AFAIK if you want to be precise, it's [0, 1).

Author: oh, I understand it lol i thought it was an error (made a really big time since I studied sets)

![Repeat](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/texParameters/repeat.png)

#### `TextureWrapMode.MirroredRepeat`:
Mirror the texture for each 1 texture coordinate unit.  
![Mirrored](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/texParameters/repeatMirrored.png)

#### `TextureWrapMode.ClampToBorder`:
Returns a solid color when the coordinate is less than 0 or greater than 1.  

> ![A big border](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/texParameters/clampToBorder.png)

Reviewer 2: Texture borders are not supported anymore by OpenGL AFAIK. The Khronos docs for [glTexImage2D](https://registry.khronos.org/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/html/glTexImage2D.xhtml) say:

> _border_
        This value must be 0.

I'm curious on what's going on in this image 😆

Author: oh, really? lol i will remove it so lol
based on it i think we should also update the library to remove these enum values?

Reviewer 2: They are still used on older OpenGL versions. I think texture borders were deprecated in OpenGL 3.0

![A weird border](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/texParameters/clampToEdge.png)

### `TextureMinFilter` & `TextureMagFilter`:
Texture `min` and `mag` filters are the filters used when the texture's final size is, respectively, less than or greater than the original size.
For now, we will show just the main two options and in the next section (Mipmaps), some others will be shown.

#### `Texture(Min/Mag)Filter.Linear`:
The (bi)linear filter is the best for low-quality images. When the pixels are sampled from the texture, this filter will get the color of the nearest
pixels of the pixel in the center of the texture coordinates and will return a linear interpolation of them.

This is an example from [Learn OpenGL](https://learnopengl.com/Getting-started/Textures). See how the neighbor colors are interpolated to return a different
color:

![linear filter](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/texParameters/filter_linear.png)

#### `Texture(Min/Mag)Filter.Nearest`:
The nearest filter returns the color of the center of the nearest pixel, no interpolation is done.

![Nearest filter](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/leasson3/texParameters/filter_nearest.png)

> ## Mipmaps

Reviewer 3: iirc mipmapping is not part of the original tutorial checked into the repo. I'm not objecting to searching mipmapping, but it is important that the examples folder and the web tutorials stay in sync

Author: The tutorial source uses mipmap generation call and there's no other place to explain about it. This is an extra section so i don't see any problem

Reviewer 3: Thanks for confirming

---
{
    "TableOfContents": {
        "Name": "1.3 - Hello Texture",
        "Url": "3-hello-Texture.html",
        "Metadata": {
            "AuthorGitHub": "lumi2021",
            "DateTimeWritten": "11/01/2024 16:00",
            "PreviewImage": ""
        }
    }
}
---

# 1.3 - Hello Texture
<?# Info "You can view the source code for this tutorial [here](../sources/1.3-final-result.html). This tutorial builds on the previous tutorial. If you haven't read it, you can do so [here](1-hello-window.html)." /?>

In the previous tutorial, we've shown you how to open an OpenGL window and draw a colored quad.

>  vh                                                          

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

vertex X and Y position floats!

To fix this, we just need to go back to our `VertexAttribPointer()`, which is below our shader compiling section, and
change it to:
```c#
//                       3 floats for position + 2 floats for texture coordinates! \/
_gl.VertexAttribPointer(positionLoc, 3, VertexAttribPointerType.Float, false, 5 * sizeof(float), (void*)0);
```
The value `3` in the seccond parameter are

This will make the buffer be read like this (including the texture coordinate pointer, which we'll add into our code later):

![Buffer reading right data](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/lesson3/right-pointers.png)

Now the positions of each vertex are being read correctly! Each position is still three floats, but by skipping the two floats after each position,
we skip over the U and V floats in between each XYZ floats, thus reading them correctly.

If we run the program now, we can see our quad again!

## Using texture coordinates
Now, we just need to prepare the shader to receive the texture coordinate values. For that, we need to modify both our shaders.

Vertex Shader:
```
#version 330 core

layout (location = 0) in vec3 aPosition;

> // Add an new input attribute for the texture coordinates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Add a new input attribute for the texture coordinates
```

layout (location = 1) in vec2 aTextureCoord;

// Add an output variable to pass the texture coordinate to the fragment shader

> // This line stores the data that we want to be received by the fragment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// This variable stores the data that we want to be received by the fragment shader
```

out vec2 frag_texCoords;

void main()
{
    gl_Position = vec4(aPosition, 1.0);
    // Assigin the texture coordinates without any modification to be recived in the fragment
    frag_texCoords = aTextureCoord;
}";
```
in this case, we are putting manually the `location` of `aTextureCoord` as 1, because we already have a attribute in the location 0.

Fragment Shader:
```
#version 330 core

// Receive the input from the vertex shader in an attribute
in vec2 frag_texCoords;

out vec4 out_color;

void main()
{
    // This will allow us to see the texture coordinates in action!
    out_color = vec4(frag_texCoords.x, frag_texCoords.y, 0.0, 1.0);
}
```

> As you already know, the Vertex Shader run for every vertex of the mesh and the Fragment Shader run for every pixel inside the mesh.
> This conversion looks weird in first look, but the data comunication between vertex and fragment shader are surely possible because
> OpenGL, automatcally, interpolate the data recived in the Vertex Shader when it's received by the Fragment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As you already know, the Vertex Shader runs for every vertex of the mesh and the Fragment Shader runs for every pixel inside the mesh.
This conversion looks weird at first glance, but the data communication between vertex and fragment shader are surely possible because
OpenGL automatically interpolates the data outputted by the Vertex Shader when it's received by the Fragment Shader.
```

Now we just need to assign the correct layout for `aTextureCoord`. You should add these lines below our first `VertexAttribPointer` call:

```c#
const uint texCoordLoc = 1;
_gl.EnableVertexAttribArray(texCoordLoc);
_gl.VertexAttribPointer(texCoordLoc, 2, VertexAttribPointerType.Float, false, 5 * sizeof(float), (void*)(3 * sizeof(float)));
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Here we're specifying a new vertex attribute, which consists of two floats and repeats every 20 bytes (`5 * sizeof(float)` = 20, that's the size of one vertex).

```

Reviewer 3: This has been added but GitHub didn't pick it up for some reason. Marking as resolved, please shout at me if this was wrong @ThomasMiz!

Pay attention to the last parameter, the pointer! It represents the number of bytes by which the offset within the vertex buffer
should be incremented before reading the vertex attribute data. This means that for this attribute OpenGL will advance past first

> 3 floats (`3 * sizeof(float)`) worth of data (which are our vertex coordinates) and instead read the next 2 floats after that.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3 floats (`3 * sizeof(float)`) worth of data (which are our vertex XYZ coordinates) and instead read the next 2 floats after that.
```

Disambiguation

> If you do everything rightyou will see this result!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you do everything right, you will see this result!
```

![Quad with UVs](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/lesson3/quad-with-uvs.png)

But we aren't there just yet. We can't see any texture in our quad!
What you are seeing is the texture coordinates we passed displayed as a color!

The Red, Green and mix between these two colors you see are, respectively, the X and Y texture coordinate values of that pixel.
In the shader, the values are being read like this:

![UV values](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/lesson3/quad-with-uvs-and-numbers.png)

As you can see, the higher the U coordinate, the redder the pixel, and the higher the V coordinate, the greener the pixel.
Even though we only specified UV values for each vertex, all pixels in the quad have UV values! That's because, as you read before,

> the fragment shader interpolates the coordinates for us, saving us a lot of work on our end.

Reviewer 2: I wrote that 😂

> the fragment shader interpolates the coordinates for us, saving us a lot of work on our end.

Author: i will say that ☝😂

> the fragment shader interpolates the coordinates for us, saving us a lot of work on our end.

Reviewer 5: redder is absolutely a word @Perksey i found it in both cambridge and merriam-webster dictionaries, and thats even setting aside the point that anything that people understand is a word. also the more redundant version is far clearer imo for a tutorial.

> the fragment shader interpolates the coordinates for us, saving us a lot of work on our end.

Author: as a not-so-good-English speaker and with Persksey's opinion, i will change it anyway but i agree with the redundance part

If we follow the diagonal from (0, 0) to (1, 1), we get the red and green colors growing together. The result of adding together
red and green in the RGB color space is yellow!

## Importing images as textures
Now for the fun part: rendering an image!

To start this section, first download
[silk.png](https://github.com/dotnet/Silk.NET/blob/477154b99564aac9cf82426754857103fb88d2ea/examples/CSharp/OpenGL%20Tutorials/Tutorial%201.3%20-%20Textures/silk.png).
We will use this image in this tutorial!

> In most cases with OpenGL, textures are uploaded as a sequence of bytes, this is usually done with a layout of 4 bytes per pixel (Red, Green, Blue, and Alpha).
> The hard part is: we can't just upload the bytes of a `.png` or `.jpg` file! These formats have a lot of unnecessary data, like headers and most importantly
> compression, which the GPU generally cannot understand.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In most cases with OpenGL, textures are uploaded as a sequence of bytes, this is usually done with a layout of 4 bytes per pixel (Red, Green, Blue, and Alpha).
The hard part is: we can't just upload the bytes of a `.png` or `.jpg` file! These formats have a lot of unnecessary data, like headers and most importantly
are compressed, which the GPU generally cannot understand.
```

To load an image file as a byte array, we will first need a external library. In our case, we will use StbImageSharp.

First of all, install the library using NuGet. To do so, you can use your IDE's NuGet package manager,
or you can run the following command inside your project folder:
```
dotnet add package StbImageSharp
```

After installing, add the following reference on the top of your code file:
```c#
using StbImageSharp;
```

At the top of your class, declare a `uint` to store the ID of the OpenGL texture object:
```c#
private static uint _texture;
```

Returning to your `OnLoad` method, add this line at the end of the method to create, and bind the texture.
That `ActiveTexture` call is telling OpenGL that we are wanting to use the first texture unit.
```c#
_texture = _gl.GenTexture();
_gl.ActiveTexture(TextureUnit.Texture0);
_gl.BindTexture(TextureTarget.Texture2D, _texture);
```

> <?# info "A texture unit is a space in memory that refers to our texture object. Instead bind the texture object to the sampler, we bind the texture unit!" /?>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<?# info "Texture units are locations in the OpenGL state where textures can be bound. Instead of textures being specified directly to shader samplers, textures are bound to a texture unit, and the texture unit is then specified to the shader sampler." /?>
```

After that, we need to load the image. You can do it with the following line:
```c#
// ImageResult.FromMemory reads the bytes of the .png file and returns all its information!
ImageResult result = ImageResult.FromMemory(File.ReadAllBytes("silk.png"), ColorComponents.RedGreenBlueAlpha);
```

> Now, with the image in memory, we need to upload the data to the GPU texture. To dot that, we need a pointer for our bytes, the width, and the height of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, with the image in memory, we need to upload the data to the GPU texture. To do that, we need a pointer for our bytes, the width, and the height of
```

Replaced the typo with another typo 😂

respectively, that we're uploading raw pixel data organized in RGBA format, with each pixel channel (R, G, B, and A) being an unsigned byte. If we wanted to create
the texture without setting any data, we would replace `ptr` with a null pointer, `(void*)0`.

Now, with the texture data sent off to the GPU, we need to configure the texture parameters. This is one of the most important steps. It is with these
parameters that the shader knows how to sample colors from the texture using our provided texture coordinates.

These will be explained in depth in [the following section on texture parameters](#texture-parameters).
Briefly, these affect how the texture is sampled when we use it in the shader.
```c#
_gl.TextureParameter(_texture, TextureParameterName.TextureWrapS, (int) TextureWrapMode.Repeat);
_gl.TextureParameter(_texture, TextureParameterName.TextureWrapT, (int) TextureWrapMode.Repeat);
_gl.TextureParameter(_texture, TextureParameterName.TextureMinFilter, (int) TextureMinFilter.Linear);
_gl.TextureParameter(_texture, TextureParameterName.TextureMagFilter, (int) TextureMagFilter.Linear);
```

> And now, as we did with the another resources, let's unbind the texture for clean up!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And now, as we did with the another resources, let's unbind the texture to clean up!
```

```c#
_gl.BindTexture(TextureTarget.Texture2D, 0);
```

## Handling texture data in shader
Now, let's finally show it on the screen!

In your fragment shader, add this `uniform` declaration:
```
uniform sampler2D uTexture;
```

And change this line:
```
void main()
{
//  -out_color = vec4(frag_texCoords.x, frag_texCoords.y, 0, 1.0);
    out_color = texture(uTexture, frag_texCoords);
}
```

In GLSL, you usually don't work with textures directly. The most common way to access a texture is using a `sampler`.
In our case, we are using `sampler2D` for our 2D texture.
To read the texture data, the `texture` method is used. It samples the color of the texture at the
specified texture coordinates and uses the previously set parameters to interpolate that color.

> But pay attention! If you have good eyes, you noticed our texture coordinates are between the ranges of `0.0` to `1.0` This is because the `texture` method works

Reviewer 2: My short-sighted eyes thank you for being considerate

with normalized values! To better understand this, think about a 250x500 pixels image. If you want to get the pixel at the position

> (250, 250), we need to send (250 / width, 250 / height), or (1, 0.5), as the texture coordinate. This way the size of the texture doesn't matter to the shader!

Reviewer 2: I also wrote that haha

> (250, 250), we need to send (250 / width, 250 / height), or (1, 0.5), as the texture coordinate. This way the size of the texture doesn't matter to the shader!

Author: but anyway, it's true, i used a lot of exclamations on it. I really like this more lively tutorial tone but even I was uncomfortable

<?# Info "You can use the equation ` 1/size * pixel_position ` to get the normalized coordinate for a particlar axis!" /?>

Now, if you run the program, you will see just a black quad. It's because we need to bind the texture before the draw call!
If you don't do it, the last applied texture will be used for this mesh, in our case, since we have no texture bound after the clean up, no texture is used.

To solve it, go to your `OnRender` method and, below the `_gl.UseProgram()` call, first activate the texture unit that you will use:
```c#
_gl.ActiveTexture(TextureUnit.Texture0);
```

> As explaned before, a texture unit is a space in memory that refers to the texture object, like a pointer. We need to first active this "pointer" to use it.

Reviewer 2: Actually, I'd update this paragraph to match the new explanation for texture units we just added

After that we bind the texture again. Doing it after activating the texture unit will automatically attatch the texture at the texture unit 0, as a 2D texture.
```c#
_gl.BindTexture(TextureTarget.Texture2D, _texture);
```
With it, the texture in the texture unit 0 should be sampled for the 1° Sampler2D.

And now when you run it (drumroll...), you can see the image being drawn inside the quad!

![Quad with texture](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/lesson3/quad-with-texture.png)

you can see the code final result [clicking here](../sources/1.3-final-result.html).

## Transparency in OpenGL
Well, you must have noticed the black rectangle around the texture. If you used another program to check the used texture, it's completely transparent!
So why our render are drawing it like it's not?
Basically because, for OpenGL eyes, it's not!

> Transparency is a really expensive task in computer graphics. This is not a reason for you not to use this feature, but is a reason for OpenGL don't enable it
> as default. OpenGL have different ways to handle transparency and it's expected tuser choose for that.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Transparency is a really expensive task in computer graphics. This is not a reason for you to avoid this feature, but is a reason that OpenGL doesn't enable it
by default. OpenGL has various different ways to handle transparency and it's expected that the user configures them explicitly.
```

First of all, we need to enable the blend capability. at the end of `onLoad` method, add the following line:
```c#
_gl.Enable(EnableCap.Blend);
```

> Enabling blend, now OpenGL knows it should do something with the alpha value of each pixel. But what will be made?
> For define this, we use the following line:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Enabling blending essentially tells OpenGL to select the output colours from the visible primitives according to some value. This is referred to as blending. In our case, we want to blend based on the alpha value.
To configure this, we use the following line:
```

```c#
_gl.BlendFunc(BlendingFactor.SrcAlpha, BlendingFactor.OneMinusSrcAlpha);
```

> The `BlendFunc()` method define the function of blending of each pixel.
> In this case we are difining `BlendingFactor.SrcAlpha` as the source factor and `BlendingFactor.OneMinusSrcAlpha` as the destination blending factor;
> With this, we have a standard transparence function that will work as expected for almost all your renders.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `BlendFunc` function configures the calculations that OpenGL does when blending output colours. In this case, we're telling it to use the alpha value of the sources being rendered (`BlendingFactor.SrcAlpha`) as the factor and to subtract that value from 1 to get the outpout value. With this, in most cases transparency will work exactly as you expect.
```

> If not, you also have a lot more bledin factors to use. See the complete list in [khronos.org](https://registry.khronos.org/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/html/glBlendFunc.xhtml).

Reviewer 3: If this isn't sufficient, there are a large amount of other blending function configurations you can use, viewable at [khronos.org](https://registry.khronos.org/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/html/glBlendFunc.xhtml).

be tiring for the eyes, and generally look quite ugly.

The purpose of a mipmap is to provide an alternative texture to the fragment shader, a one with a more appropriate size for the geometry being drawn, almost completely
eliminating the moiré effect.

An example from [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Mipmap_Aliasing_Comparison.png). It's possible to notice weird patterns
generated far away in the render without mipmaps:

![Mipmap usage example](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/lesson3/mipmap_comparation.png)

But if you think that generating mipmaps by hand for all your textures is really hard work, don't worry! OpenGL provides a special method to
do this for you.

Just after setting the texture parameters, try to add this line to your code:
```c#
_gl.GenerateMipmap(TextureTarget.Texture2D);
```

But this is not everything, we also need to set some parameters to tell the sampler to use the mipmaps:

### `GL_NEAREST_MIPMAP_NEAREST`, `GL_LINEAR_MIPMAP_NEAREST`, `GL_NEAREST_MIPMAP_LINEAR` & `GL_LINEAR_MIPMAP_LINEAR`:

> These parameters should be used as the Texture Min filter and only with textures that have a mipmap.

Reviewer 3: You haven't explained what a min filter is.

Author: > Texture min and mag filters are the filters used when the texture's final size is, respectively, less than or greater than the original size.
but i will rewrite it

Reviewer 2: I'm closing conversations on filtering and unifying/superseding them with [this one](https://github.com/dotnet/Silk.NET/pull/1899/files#r1477123745).

#### `TextureMinFilter.GL_NEAREST_MIPMAP_NEAREST`:
Will get the mip with the closest size of the final image and will return the color of the pixel that matches exactly with the texture coordinates.

#### `TextureMinFilter.GL_LINEAR_MIPMAP_NEAREST`:
Will get the color of the pixels that match exactly with the texture coordinates of each mipmap and interpolates them.

#### `TextureMinFilter.GL_NEAREST_MIPMAP_LINEAR`:
Will get the mip with the closest size of the final image and will return the interpolated color
of the pixels surrounding the pixel in the texture coordinate.

#### `TextureMinFilter.GL_LINEAR_MIPMAP_LINEAR`:
Will get the interpolated color of the pixels surrounding the pixel that matches exactly with the texture coordinates of each mipmap and interpolates them.

Knowing this, you can change the parameters for:
```c#
_gl.TextureParameter(_texture, TextureParameterName.TextureWrapS, (int)TextureWrapMode.Repeat);
_gl.TextureParameter(_texture, TextureParameterName.TextureWrapT, (int)TextureWrapMode.Repeat);
_gl.TextureParameter(_texture, TextureParameterName.TextureMinFilter, (int)TextureMinFilter.NearestMipmapNearest); // <- change here!

> _gl.TextureParameter(_texture, TextureParameterName.TextureMagFilter, (int)TextureMagFilter.Nearest);

Reviewer 3: There are no words about this line/magnification filters.

Reviewer 2: Paragraph suggestion: "When we draw a texture, the area on the screen in which we're drawing the texture typically doesn't have the same size or shape as the texture. This means that during rendering we usually have to either scale up or down the size of the texture! This process is called _filtering_.

Author: i tried to fix this and the request above at the same time, pls rate it in the next commit

Reviewer 2: I'm closing conversations on filtering and unifying/superseding them with [this one](https://github.com/dotnet/Silk.NET/pull/1899/files#r1477123745).

---
{
    "TableOfContents": {
        "Name": "1.3 - Hello Texture",
        "Url": "3-hello-Texture.html",
        "Metadata": {
            "AuthorGitHub": "lumi2021",
            "DateTimeWritten": "11/01/2024 16:00",
            "PreviewImage": ""
        }
    }
}
---

# 1.3 - Hello Texture
<?# Info "You can view the source code for this tutorial [here](../sources/1.3-final-result.html). This tutorial builds on the previous tutorial. If you haven't read it, you can do so [here](1-hello-window.html)." /?>

In the previous tutorial, we've shown you how to open an OpenGL window and draw a colored quad.
                                                    
Another very important thing in graphics programming is the ability to draw images. In this tutorial, you'll learn:

* What a texture is.
* How to send more data to shaders.
* How to use texture coordinates.
* How to import images as textures.
* How shaders handle images.
* How OpenGL handle transparency.
* How to use texture parameters.

> * How to allow mipmaps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* What are mipmaps and how to use them.
```

## What a texture is
Technically, textures are multidimensional objects that store color data.

The most common type of texture is the 2D texture, which stores a 2D grid of pixels of an image (this is just for comparison.
Texture objects are a lot more complex than just 2D arrays!).

> This data is stored in GPU memory, and can be read a shader.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This data is stored in GPU memory, and can be read by a shader.
```

The most important piece of information that we need to send to the texture to see it on the screen are the texture coordinates.
The texture coordinates are the positions within the texture for a particular vertex. Below we will learn how to fill out this data and read it from a shader.

## Sending more data to shaders
Texture coordinates are a type of data that can be manipulated by the vertex shader before it is used by the fragment shader.
This means that this data needs to be passed to the vertex shader which, as per the previous tutorials, is once again done using a vertex buffer.

Let's go back to our `OnLoad` function and update our `vertices` array to the following:
```c#
// The quad vertices data. Now with Texture coordinates!
float[] vertices =
{
//       aPosition     | aTexCoords
     0.5f,  0.5f, 0.0f,  1.0f, 1.0f,
     0.5f, -0.5f, 0.0f,  1.0f, 0.0f,
    -0.5f, -0.5f, 0.0f,  0.0f, 0.0f,
    -0.5f,  0.5f, 0.0f,  0.0f, 1.0f
};
```

With how we have structured the data, both the vertex and texture coordinates can be stored in a single array.

If we try to run our program now...

![A really messed up quad!](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/lesson3/messed-up-quad.png)

> Well, that doesn't like the quad we were expected. This is because we have updated the vertex buffer we're passing to the vertex shader,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Well, that doesn't look like the quad we were expecting. This is because we have updated the vertex buffer we're passing to the vertex shader,
```

Reviewer 3: Oops, my bad.

shown in the previous tutorial to work with our new texture coordinates.

In our `VertexAttribPointer` calls, we declared an `aPosition` attribute with a size of 3 floats and a stride of 12 bytes (`3 * sizeof(float)` equals 12).
Because of this, our buffer is being read like this:

![Buffer reading wrong data](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/lesson3/wrong-pointers.png)

As you can see, the vertex buffer is being read as if the first vertex was composed of the first three floats in the buffer, then the second
vertex the next three floats, the third vertex the next three, and so on and so forth. As we can see however, this is now wrong! Since each
vertex has two UV floats after its three position floats, this means that the first vertex's U and V floats are being read as the second
vertex X and Y position floats!

To fix this, we just need to go back to our `VertexAttribPointer()`, which is below our shader compiling section, and
change it to:
```c#
//                       3 floats for position + 2 floats for texture coordinates! \/
_gl.VertexAttribPointer(positionLoc, 3, VertexAttribPointerType.Float, false, 5 * sizeof(float), (void*)0);
```

> The value `3` in the seccond parameter are
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```
Here we're specifying a new vertex attribute, which consists of two floats and repeats every 20 bytes (`5 * sizeof(float)` = 20,
that's the size of one vertex).

Pay attention to the last parameter, the pointer! It represents the number of bytes by which the offset within the vertex buffer
should be incremented before reading the vertex attribute data. This means that for this attribute OpenGL will advance past first
3 floats (`3 * sizeof(float)`) worth of data (which are our vertex XYZ coordinates) and instead read the next 2 floats after that.

If you do everything right, you will see this result!

![Quad with UVs](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/lesson3/quad-with-uvs.png)

But we aren't there just yet. We can't see any texture in our quad!
What you are seeing is the texture coordinates we passed displayed as a color!

The Red, Green and mix between these two colors you see are, respectively, the X and Y texture coordinate values of that pixel.
In the shader, the values are being read like this:

![UV values](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/lesson3/quad-with-uvs-and-numbers.png)

> As you can see, the higher the X/U coordinate, more reddish is the pixel, and the higher the Y/V coordinate, the more greenish the pixel.
> Even though we only specified UV values for each vertex, all pixels in the quad have UV values! That's because, as you read before,
> the fragment shader interpolates the coordinates for us, saving us a lot of work on our end.
> If we follow the diagonal from (0, 0) to (1, 1), the amount of red and green in the output colour increases at the same rate, resulting in a yellow color.

Reviewer 3: I think reddish is worse as it just makes me think of raddish haha.
```suggestion
As you can see, as the X/U coordinate increases so does the amount of red in the output pixel, and likewise as the Y/V coordinate increases so does the amount of green.
Even though we only specified UV values for each vertex, all pixels in the quad have UV values. That's because, as you read before,
the fragment shader interpolates the coordinates for us, saving us a lot of work on our end.
If we follow the diagonal from (0, 0) to (1, 1), the amount of red and green in the output colour increases at the same rate, resulting in a yellow color.
```

Reviewer 2: ((Replace `colour` with `color` as the repo follows Freedom English))

Reviewer 3: Ugh, yes, against my better judgement. Will update my comment.

Reviewer 2: 😈

Reviewer 2: This suggestion has been applied, I'm marking it as resolved (ping @Perksey)

To start this section, first download
[silk.png](https://github.com/dotnet/Silk.NET/blob/477154b99564aac9cf82426754857103fb88d2ea/examples/CSharp/OpenGL%20Tutorials/Tutorial%201.3%20-%20Textures/silk.png).
We will use this image in this tutorial!

In most cases with OpenGL, textures are uploaded as a sequence of bytes, this is usually done with a layout of 4 bytes per pixel (Red, Green, Blue, and Alpha).
The hard part is: we can't just upload the bytes of a `.png` or `.jpg` file! These formats have a lot of unnecessary data, like headers and, most importantly,
they're compressed, which the GPU generally cannot understand.

To load an image file as a byte array, we will first need a external library. In our case, we will use StbImageSharp.

First of all, install the library using NuGet. To do so, you can use your IDE's NuGet package manager,
or you can run the following command inside your project folder:
```
dotnet add package StbImageSharp
```

After installing, add the following reference on the top of your code file:
```c#
using StbImageSharp;
```

At the top of your class, declare a `uint` to store the ID of the OpenGL texture object:
```c#
private static uint _texture;
```

> Returning to your `OnLoad` method, add this line at the end of the method to create, and bind the texture.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returning to your `OnLoad` method, add these lines at the end of the method to create and bind the texture.
```

That `ActiveTexture` call is telling OpenGL that we are wanting to use the first texture unit.
```c#
_texture = _gl.GenTexture();
_gl.ActiveTexture(TextureUnit.Texture0);
_gl.BindTexture(TextureTarget.Texture2D, _texture);
```
<?# info "Texture units are locations in the OpenGL state where textures can be bound. Instead of textures being specified directly to shader samplers,
textures are bound to a texture unit, and the texture unit is then specified to the shader sampler." /?>

After that, we need to load the image. You can do it with the following line:
```c#

> // ImageResult.FromMemory reads the bytes of the .png file and returns all its information!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// ImageResult.FromMemory reads the bytes of the .png file and returns the raw RGBA color data
```

Author: It doesn't return just the raw pixel data, it returns also the metadata of the image like the image size and etc

Reviewer 2: Ah okay, you can leave it as it is then

respectively, that we're uploading raw pixel data organized in RGBA format, with each pixel channel (R, G, B, and A) being an unsigned byte. If we wanted to create
the texture without setting any data, we would replace `ptr` with a null pointer, `(void*)0`.

Now, with the texture data sent off to the GPU, we need to configure the texture parameters. This is one of the most important steps. It is with these
parameters that the shader knows how to sample colors from the texture using our provided texture coordinates.

These will be explained in depth in [the following section on texture parameters](#texture-parameters).
Briefly, these affect how the texture is sampled when we use it in the shader.
```c#
_gl.TexParameterI(GLEnum.Texture2D, GLEnum.TextureWrapS, (int)TextureWrapMode.Repeat);
_gl.TexParameterI(GLEnum.Texture2D, GLEnum.TextureWrapT, (int)TextureWrapMode.Repeat);
_gl.TexParameterI(GLEnum.Texture2D, GLEnum.TextureMinFilter, (int)TextureMinFilter.Nearest);
_gl.TexParameterI(GLEnum.Texture2D, GLEnum.TextureMagFilter, (int)TextureMagFilter.Nearest);
```

> And now, as we did with the another resources, let's unbind the texture to clean up.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And now, just as we did with the other resources, let's unbind the texture to clean up.
```

In your fragment shader, add this `uniform` declaration:
```
uniform sampler2D uTexture;
```

And change this line:
```
void main()
{
//  -out_color = vec4(frag_texCoords.x, frag_texCoords.y, 0, 1.0);
    out_color = texture(uTexture, frag_texCoords);
}
```

In GLSL, you usually don't work with textures directly. The most common way to access a texture is using a `sampler`.
In our case, we are using `sampler2D` for our 2D texture.
To read the texture data, the `texture` method is used. It samples the color of the texture at the
specified texture coordinates and uses the previously set parameters to interpolate that color.

But pay attention! Notice that our texture coordinates are between the ranges of `0.0` to `1.0` This is because the `texture` method works
with normalized values! To better understand this, think about a 250x500 pixels image. If you want to get the pixel at the position
(250, 250), we need to send (250 / width, 250 / height), or (1, 0.5), as the texture coordinate. This way the size of the texture doesn't matter to the shader.

<?# Info "You can use the equation ` 1/size * pixel_position ` to get the normalized coordinate for a particlar axis!" /?>

> After have configurated our uniform `uTexture`, we need to bind our texture unit to it. To do so, we do it using the following lines:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After having configured our uniform `uTexture`, we need to bind our texture unit to it. To do so, we do it using the following lines:
```

_gl.Uniform1(location, 0);
```
The first line calls `GetUniformLocation` that return the numeric location of the requested uniform. In this case, `"uTexture"`.
After store the location in `location`, we call `Uniform1` to bind the Texture Unit 0 in the uniform.

Now, if you run the program, you will see just a black quad. It's because we need to bind the texture before the draw call!
If you don't do it, the last applied texture will be used for this mesh, in our case, since we have no texture bound after the clean up, no texture is used.

To solve it, go to your `OnRender` method and, below the `_gl.UseProgram()` call, first activate the texture unit that you will use:
```c#
_gl.ActiveTexture(TextureUnit.Texture0);
```
Recall that a texture unit is a space in memory that refers to the texture object. We need to first set the texture unit we want to use as active before we can
bind our texture to it. We're using the first texture unit `Texture0` here.

After that we bind the texture again. Doing it after activating the texture unit will automatically attatch the texture at the texture unit 0, as a 2D texture.
```c#
_gl.BindTexture(TextureTarget.Texture2D, _texture);
```

> With it, the texture in the texture unit 0 should be sampled for the 1° Sampler2D.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With that, the texture in the texture unit 0 should be set for our sampler2D.
```

And now when you run it (drumroll...), you can see the image being drawn inside the quad!

![Quad with texture](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/lesson3/quad-with-texture.png)

## Transparency in OpenGL

> Well, you must have noticed the black rectangle around the texture. If you used another program to check the used texture, it's completely transparent!
> So why our render are drawing it like it's not?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Well, you must have noticed the black corners around the texture. If you use another program to check the texture, it's completely transparent! So why isn't it rendering like so?
```

Transparency is a really expensive task in computer graphics. This is not a reason for you to avoid this feature, but is a reason that OpenGL doesn't enable it
by default. OpenGL has various different ways to handle transparency and it's expected that the user configures them explicitly.

First of all, we need to enable the blend capability. at the end of `onLoad` method, add the following line:
```c#
_gl.Enable(EnableCap.Blend);
```

> Enabling blending essentially tells OpenGL to select the output colours from the visible primitives according to some value. This is referred to as blending.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enabling blending essentially tells OpenGL to select the output colors from the visible primitives according to some value. This is referred to as blending.
```

In our case, we want to blend based on the alpha value.
To configure this, we use the following line:
```c#
_gl.BlendFunc(BlendingFactor.SrcAlpha, BlendingFactor.OneMinusSrcAlpha);
```

> The `BlendFunc` function configures the calculations that OpenGL does when blending output colours. In this case, we're telling it to use the alpha value of the sources

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `BlendFunc` function configures the calculations that OpenGL does when blending output colors. In this case, we're telling it to use the alpha value of the sources
```

> being rendered (`BlendingFactor.SrcAlpha`) as the factor and to subtract that value from 1 to get the outpout value. With this, in most cases transparency will work exactly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
being rendered (`BlendingFactor.SrcAlpha`) as the factor and to subtract that value from 1 to get the output value. With this, in most cases transparency will work exactly
```

as you expect.

> If this isn't sufficient, there are a large amount of other blending function configurations you can use, viewable at [khronos.org](https://registry.khronos.org/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/html/glBlendFunc.xhtml).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If this isn't sufficient, there are a large amount of other blending function configurations you can use, which you can find in [the Khronos documentation](https://registry.khronos.org/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/html/glBlendFunc.xhtml).
```

And when you run the program now, the transparent pixels of the image will not be visible anymore:

![Quad with texture and transparency](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/lesson3/quad-with-transparency.png)

you can see the code final result [clicking here](../sources/1.3-final-result.html).

## Texture parameters
And now, some extra content to go with this tutorial!

If you get curious about how the texture parameters work, let's learn it now!

First, let's learn the structure of the command:
```c#
_gl.TexParameter( [Texture ID] , [Parameter to change] , [New value for parameter] );

> // The sulfix of TextureParameter will variate depending on the type of the expected value for the parameter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// The suffix of TexParameter will vary depending on the type of the expected value for the parameter
```

Author: it's right, the error is on line 352

The texture ID you already know. So let's learn what each parameter means!

### `TextureWrapS` & `TextureWrapT`:
`TextureWrap` is the parameter that allows you to say what the `texture` method (in the fragment shader) should do with values lesser than 0 and
greater than 1. The `S` and `T` refer to X and Y respectively.

Let's see the most common values for these parameters:

#### `TextureWrapMode.Repeat`:
Just repeats the image without any change, turning any coordinates outside the [0, 1) range by taking the fractional part of said number.  
![Repeat](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/lesson3/texParameters/repeat.png)

#### `TextureWrapMode.MirroredRepeat`:
Mirror the texture for each 1 texture coordinate unit.  
![Mirrored](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/lesson3/texParameters/repeatMirrored.png)

#### `TextureWrapMode.ClampToEdge`:
Returns the pixel on the respective edge of the image.  
![A weird border](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/lesson3/texParameters/clampToEdge.png)

> ### `TextureMinFilter` & `TextureMagFilter`:
> Texture `min` and `mag` filters are the filters used when the texture's final size is, respectively, lesser than or greater than the original size.
> For now, we will show just the main two options and in the next section [(Mipmaps)](#mipmaps), some others will be shown.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `TextureMinFilter` & `TextureMagFilter`:
When we draw a texture, the area on the screen in which we're drawing the texture typically doesn't have the same size or shape as the texture. This means that during rendering we usually have to either scale up or down the size of the texture! This process is called _filtering_.

The texture `min` (minifying) and `mag` (magnifying) filters are the filters used when the texture's final size is, respectively, lesser than or greater than the original size.
For now, we will show just the main two options and in the next section [(Mipmaps)](#mipmaps), some others will be shown.
```

Reviewer 2: This suggestion applies to two previous conversations about missing explanations on min/mag filters

For now, we will show just the main two options and in the next section [(Mipmaps)](#mipmaps), some others will be shown.

#### `Texture(Min/Mag)Filter.Linear`:

> The (bi)linear filter is the best for low-quality images. When the pixels are sampled from the texture, this filter will get the color of the nearest
> pixels of the pixel in the center of the texture coordinates and will return a linear interpolation of them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The (bi)linear filter is the best for low-quality images. When the pixels are sampled from the texture, this filter will get the color of the nearest pixels to the texture coordinates and will return a linear interpolation of them.
```

#### `Texture(Min/Mag)Filter.Nearest`:
The nearest filter returns the color of the center of the nearest pixel, no interpolation is done.

![Nearest filter](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/lesson3/texParameters/filter_nearest.png)

<?# Info "As `TexParameter` functions don't accepts enuns, you will have to do a explicit convertion using `(int)` in a `TexParameterI`, for integer parameters." /?> 

## Mipmaps
Now for the last part of this tutorial. Mipmaps are an essential resource for making good renders.

But first, what are Mipmaps?

Mipmaps are a map of tiny versions of the texture. The following is an example of mipmap texture:
![An example of a Mipmap texture](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/lesson3/example_mipmap.png)

But what is this used for?

At first look, mipmaps may seem very useless. But in reality, they are extremely important! Mipmaps are used when the texture is being rendered at a very low size,
which can cause some weird visual artifacts, even with the use of the linear filter. The most potent visual effect is something called the "moiré effect", which can
be tiring for the eyes, and generally look quite ugly.

> The purpose of a mipmap is to provide an alternative texture to the fragment shader, a one with a more appropriate size for the geometry being drawn, almost completely

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The purpose of a mipmap is to provide an alternative texture to the fragment shader, one with a more appropriate size for the geometry being drawn, almost completely
```

eliminating the moiré effect.

An example from [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Mipmap_Aliasing_Comparison.png). It's possible to notice weird patterns
generated far away in the render without mipmaps:

![Mipmap usage example](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/lesson3/mipmap_comparation.png)

But if you think that generating mipmaps by hand for all your textures is really hard work, don't worry! OpenGL provides a special method to
do this for you.

> Just after setting the texture parameters, try to add this line to your code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Just after setting the texture parameters, to add this line to your code:
```

```c#
_gl.GenerateMipmap(TextureTarget.Texture2D);
```

But this is not everything, we also need to set some parameters to tell the sampler to use the mipmaps:

### `GL_NEAREST_MIPMAP_NEAREST`, `GL_LINEAR_MIPMAP_NEAREST`, `GL_NEAREST_MIPMAP_LINEAR` & `GL_LINEAR_MIPMAP_LINEAR`:

> These parameters should be used as the Texture Min filter and only with textures that have a mipmap.
> 
> #### `TextureMinFilter.GL_NEAREST_MIPMAP_NEAREST`:
> Will get the mip with the closest size of the final image and will return the color of the pixel that matches exactly with the texture coordinates.
> 
> #### `TextureMinFilter.GL_LINEAR_MIPMAP_NEAREST`:
> Will get the color of the pixels that match exactly with the texture coordinates of each mipmap and interpolates them.
> 
> #### `TextureMinFilter.GL_NEAREST_MIPMAP_LINEAR`:
> Will get the mip with the closest size of the final image and will return the interpolated color
> of the pixels surrounding the pixel in the texture coordinate.
> 
> #### `TextureMinFilter.GL_LINEAR_MIPMAP_LINEAR`:
> Will get the interpolated color of the pixels surrounding the pixel that matches exactly with the texture coordinates of each mipmap and interpolates them.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand what most of this text means, I suggest this rewrite:

```suggestion
These parameters should be used as the texture min filter and only with textures that have mipmaps. All of these options can be categorized in two ways:
* How does it choose what mipmap level to sample from
* How does it sample color data from that mipmap

#### `TextureMinFilter.GL_NEAREST_MIPMAP_NEAREST`:
Will choose the mipmap with the closest size to the final image, then sample it with nearest sampling.

#### `TextureMinFilter.GL_LINEAR_MIPMAP_NEAREST`:
Will choose the mipmap with the closest size to the final image, then sample it with linear sampling.

#### `TextureMinFilter.GL_NEAREST_MIPMAP_LINEAR`:
Will sample the two mipmaps whose sizes are closest to the final image with nearest sampling, then linearly interpolate between those two values.

#### `TextureMinFilter.GL_LINEAR_MIPMAP_LINEAR`:
Will sample the two mipmaps whose sizes are closest to the final image with linear sampling, then linearly interpolate between those two values.
```

Knowing this, you can change the parameters for:
```c#
_gl.TextureParameter(_texture, TextureParameterName.TextureWrapS, (int)TextureWrapMode.Repeat);
_gl.TextureParameter(_texture, TextureParameterName.TextureWrapT, (int)TextureWrapMode.Repeat);
_gl.TextureParameter(_texture, TextureParameterName.TextureMinFilter, (int)TextureMinFilter.NearestMipmapNearest); // <- change here!

> _gl.TextureParameter(_texture, TextureParameterName.TextureMagFilter, (int)TextureMagFilter.Nearest);

Reviewer 2: Replace `TextureParameter` calls with `TexParameter` calls

---
{
    "TableOfContents": {
        "Name": "1.3 - Hello Texture",
        "Url": "3-hello-Texture.html",
        "Metadata": {
            "AuthorGitHub": "lumi2021",
            "DateTimeWritten": "11/01/2024 16:00",
            "PreviewImage": ""
        }
    }
}
---

# 1.3 - Hello Texture
<?# Info "You can view the source code for this tutorial [here](../sources/1.3-final-result.html). This tutorial builds on the previous tutorial. If you haven't read it, you can do so [here](1-hello-window.html)." /?>

In the previous tutorial, we've shown you how to open an OpenGL window and draw a colored quad.
                                                    
Another very important thing in graphics programming is the ability to draw images. In this tutorial, you'll learn:

* What a texture is.
* How to send more data to shaders.
* How to use texture coordinates.
* How to import images as textures.
* How shaders handle images.

> * How OpenGL handle transparency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* How OpenGL handles transparency.
```

* How to use texture parameters.
* What are mipmaps and how to use them.

## What a texture is
Technically, textures are multidimensional objects that store color data.

> The most common type of texture is the 2D texture, which stores a 2D grid of pixels of an image (this is just for comparison.
> Texture objects are a lot more complex than just 2D arrays!).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most common type of texture is the 2D texture, which stores a 2D grid of pixels of an image (This is just for comparison,
texture objects are a lot more complex than just 2D arrays!).
```

Reviewer 3: I disagree with this comment, the parenthesised expression should not be capitalised as it is still part of the sentence.

Reviewer: Is that how that works? I thought if the text within the parentheses was a full sentence on its own you capitalized the text within. 
How i read this is that it's two separate sentences "The most common type of texture is the 2D texture, which stores a 2D grid of pixels of an image" and "This is just for comparison,
texture objects are a lot more complex than just 2D arrays", with just parentheses making the intended relationship between them clearer.

Reviewer 3: A parenthesised expression should not be its own sentence in most cases. Parentheses are used to enclose additional, non-essential information to clarify, explain, or add a side note in a sentence. Use parentheses to prevent disrupting the flow of a sentence.

Reviewer 3: So it sounds like a standalone sentence may be appropriate here.

Reviewer 2: I see the point for this and agree with the change, but I don't think the first word inside the parenthesis should be capitalized

Reviewer: Updated the suggestion to reword it

![Buffer reading right data](../../../images/opengl/chapter1/lesson3/right-pointers.png)

Now the positions of each vertex are being read correctly! Each position is still three floats, but by skipping the two floats after each position,
we skip over the U and V floats in between each XYZ floats, thus reading them correctly.

If we run the program now, we can see our quad again!

## Using texture coordinates
Now, we just need to prepare the shader to receive the texture coordinate values. For that, we need to modify both our shaders.

Vertex Shader:
```
#version 330 core

layout (location = 0) in vec3 aPosition;
// Add a new input attribute for the texture coordinates
layout (location = 1) in vec2 aTextureCoord;

// Add an output variable to pass the texture coordinate to the fragment shader
// This variable stores the data that we want to be received by the fragment
out vec2 frag_texCoords;

void main()
{
    gl_Position = vec4(aPosition, 1.0);
    // Assigin the texture coordinates without any modification to be recived in the fragment
    frag_texCoords = aTextureCoord;
}";
```

> in this case, we are putting manually the `location` of `aTextureCoord` as 1, because we already have a attribute in the location 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, we are manually specifying the `location` of `aTextureCoord` as 1, because we already have an attribute in the location 0.
```

Even though we only specified UV values for each vertex, all pixels in the quad have UV values. That's because, as you read before,
the fragment shader interpolates the coordinates for us, saving us a lot of work on our end.
If we follow the diagonal from (0, 0) to (1, 1), the amount of red and green in the output color increases at the same rate, resulting in a yellow color.

## Importing images as textures
Now for the fun part: rendering an image!

To start this section, first download
[silk.png](https://github.com/dotnet/Silk.NET/blob/477154b99564aac9cf82426754857103fb88d2ea/examples/CSharp/OpenGL%20Tutorials/Tutorial%201.3%20-%20Textures/silk.png).
We will use this image in this tutorial!

In most cases with OpenGL, textures are uploaded as a sequence of bytes, this is usually done with a layout of 4 bytes per pixel (Red, Green, Blue, and Alpha).
The hard part is: we can't just upload the bytes of a `.png` or `.jpg` file! These formats have a lot of unnecessary data, like headers and, most importantly,
they're compressed, which the GPU generally cannot understand.

> To load an image file as a byte array, we will first need a external library. In our case, we will use StbImageSharp.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To load an image file as a byte array, we will first need an external library. In our case, we will use StbImageSharp.
```

But if you think that generating mipmaps by hand for all your textures is really hard work, don't worry! OpenGL provides a special method to
do this for you.

> Just after setting the texture parameters, to add this line to your code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Just after setting the texture parameters, add this line to your code:
```

Ah, my bad
